The official title of this is Delivering
Content via Interactive QuickTime.
To be quite honest,
I don't know what that means.
What we're going to focus on here is
programming QuickTime interactivity.
So I'm assuming that a large part of my
audience here are software developers,
and ideally you will have written
a QuickTime-savvy application.
What I want to do today is talk about
some things you might need to do
to make your application interact.
active savvy.
My name is Tim Monroe and I'm
with QuickTime Engineering.
So I want to talk about
three things today.
One, how to create some of those
cool movies that Eric showed
us in the previous session.
Second,
I want to look a little bit at how
to use QuickTime API to do some
additional sorts of things that you
can't do just in the movie itself.
And the third thing I want to do,
as I said,
is to focus on some things that
you could do to your application
to make them interactive,
savvy.
I'm going to do these
actually in the reverse order.
I'm going to start off by
looking at a little bit review
about what interactivity is.
By now,
especially after Eric and Ben's session,
you should have a pretty
good idea of what it is that
characterizes interactivity.
Just to review a little bit,
objects in the movie can
respond to events from the user.
Typically those are mouse
and keyboard events.
We can have different types of
media interacting with one another.
Objects in the media can be
scripted or have intelligent
behaviors assigned to them,
and these objects can communicate
with one another in the same
movie or even between movies.
Again, this should be review.
We have two intrinsically
interactive media types in QuickTime,
namely QuickTime VR and Flash.
In addition,
there are sprite tracks and text
tracks can be scripted or wired
as we saw in the previous session.
And finally,
we can use QuickTime functions to
add interactive dynamic behaviors
to non-interactive tracks.
So let's start by talking about,
suppose you've got a
QuickTime savvy application.
Is there anything additional you need to
do to make it work well with the kinds
of movies we saw in the previous session?
The answer is yes,
and I have outlined here four different
levels of interactive awareness.
First, I call interactive challenged.
Second, interactive aware.
Interactive smart.
And then, if you're really good,
your app can be an interactive genius.
So what are those?
An interactive challenged application
does not use a movie controller
to guide the movie's actions.
If you were in the 601 session today,
we tried to drive the point home that
if you have a QuickTime application
that plays QuickTime movies,
you want to use a movie
controller to do that.
However, it's possible that even if
you do use a movie controller,
you can try to be too clever.
And here's a couple of lines
of code where the developer
has tried to be too clever.
What they've said is, well,
if the movie isn't playing,
that is to say, if getMovieRate is zero,
there's no point in giving
the event to MCIsPlayerEvent.
This was fine for linear movies perhaps,
but for interactive movies
it will fail miserably.
A step up is interactive aware.
And this sort of just means that
you're not interactive challenged.
You use a movie controller to guide
your movies and you install a movie
controller action filter procedure
to handle movie controller actions.
I've got electrodes coming out here.
Step up from interactive
aware is interactive smart.
What do you need to do
to be interactive smart?
Well, you need to handle key-up events,
you need to support full-screen playback,
you need to support the kind
of intermovie communication we
saw in the previous session,
and you need to support what
I call application messages.
Each one of these I'll talk
about in more detail as we go on.
Finally,
if you're really clever and you've really
got a great application and you want to
be an interactive genius application,
you need to do two more things,
namely support skinned movies and
support contextual pop-up menus.
Let's go to the demo machine and see what
I mean by skin movies and context menus.
We've actually seen quite
a number of skins today,
so I'll do this quite briefly.
Here is a very simple skin movie.
It's got a video track there.
Unfortunately,
I can't play the video track because
I don't have clearance to do that.
And I didn't get time to
replace the video track.
But I can grab in my
Apple and move it around.
I could click in here and
start the video playing.
So there's QuickTime Player.
It's got at least that much
interactive savvy that it can
open and display skin movies.
But of course,
other applications can too.
Let's drop that same movie onto
This custom application and I also
get skinned movie support there.
Now this is a sample
application called QtSkins.
That sample code has been up
on the web for quite a while,
but I'll warn you if
you go get that today,
it won't work under the
current builds of OS X.
There's some problems with it.
I'm currently working on upgrading it,
so in about a week or so,
you can go there and grab the source code
and have a skin-savvy app in no time.
Let's talk about contextual menus.
To do that, I'm going to launch Explorer.
By contextual menus,
I mean the kind of thing
you get in a Flash movie.
Let's go to...
"Just a random website that may
have some Flash content on it.
So here I've got some,
I've got a Flash movie.
And how can I tell that's a Flash movie?
If I control click in there,
I get this nice contextual pop-up menu.
This is also characteristic
of the Flash player,
but they added it so that
you could sort of zoom in,
do various other things in the browser."
Now, to achieve the level
of interactive genius,
it would be nice to have that same
capability in your application.
And here again,
I've got a sample application.
I'm just going to take
a sample flash file,
open it in this application.
This flash file,
when I use my arrow keys,
the little ladybug moves around.
This is a QuickTime movie.
And again, if I do my control click,
in this application,
I've got the ability to create a movie.
I've got the ability to zoom in.
And I get that wonderful flash
vector graphics that looks
good at all magnifications.
I can go back, zoom out,
and pull up the About box
for that application.
Okay, back to slides, please.
So I'll talk a little bit later
about exactly what you need to do to
support skins and the contextual menu,
but let's start at the lower level and
talk about how to be interactive aware.
The essential thing is that you use a
movie controller to control your movies,
and the main thing you want to do
in that regard is to install a movie
controller action filter procedure.
A movie controller is quite a
polite piece of code in that
before it does anything important,
it tells your application
about it and gives you a chance
to augment its behaviors or,
in fact, cancel what it's about to do.
We do this with what's called a movie
controller action filter procedure,
which we install like this.
Now, there's several versions
of this function.
The one I'm calling here is
MCSetActionFilterWithRefCon.
What I get here additional is
that I can pass an arbitrary
four-byte reference constant.
In this case, as you can see,
I'm passing something
called myWindowData.
Presumably,
that's a handle or a pointer to some
data that's associated with this window.
What do I do inside
my action filter proc?
I'm going to be given MC actions
as one of the parameters.
And what I want to do, for instance,
if I get a MC action
controller size changed action,
is to resize my window to
hold the resized movie.
In this case,
you'll notice I'm turning false,
indicating to the movie controller
that I haven't handled that action.
That is to say that
I don't want to cancel it.
If I were to return true,
I would be canceling the
controller size change.
So that's essentially what you
need to do to be interactive aware.
To be interactive smart,
one thing we need to do is
to support the key up event.
Now back in 1984 when
the Mac OS was developed,
they thought key up
events are fairly useless.
Who in the world would want to do
something in response to a key up event?
So the default behavior for
Macintosh applications is
to filter out key up events.
Well it turns out that in Flash,
you can do things when
you've got a key up event.
So to fully support Flash,
we had to add to QuickTime the capability
to pass this key up event through.
So what you need to do is to enable
your application to get the event.
And how you do that depends on
exactly how you're doing the coding.
If you have a WaitNextEvent application,
you'll want to call
setEventMask to every event.
If you have a CarbonEvent application,
you'll want to register to
receive the KEvent raw key up.
Now what do you do when
you get this event?
You just give it to the movie controller
and the right thing will happen.
The next thing we want to do to
be interactive smart is to be able
to play back movies full screen.
QuickTime provides two functions,
begin full screen and end full screen,
that we can use to play
a movie back full screen.
It's actually a little bit trickier than
just calling these functions because
when you put a movie into full screen,
you have to adjust various
movie controller settings.
For instance, you have to tell it,
you're no longer playing
in this small rectangle,
you're playing in this big rectangle.
And it turns out that there are actually
a number of ways that you can be told
to put a movie into full screen mode.
One of them is a movie can have a
piece of movie user data of type
PTV that indicates that this movie
wants to be played full screen.
So when you open a movie file,
you should look for that
piece of movie user data.
If you find it,
make sure that it says to put the
movie full screen and then do so.
Another way that you can be told
to put a movie full screen is by
receiving various application messages,
which we'll talk more about later.
But let's look at a demo of that.
Back to the demo machine.
So here I have four different
files that I want to open.
The first one is called Full Screen Atom.
And this has that PTV atom that
tells me that I want to put the
movie into full screen mode.
So let's drag that onto my
sample application here.
The movie opens and then immediately
goes full screen and starts playing.
If I hit escape,
I come back out of full screen.
Another way a movie could want to
go full screen is if the user says,
"Please put this into full
screen." For instance,
if there's a menu item that says,
"Play full screen," again,
we'll go full screen.
We can start it and play it through.
So there's two ways so far we can be told
to go full screen with the movie user,
Adam, and with a menu command.
Let me illustrate what
I call application messages.
Here is a simple sprite movie.
It's got a single sprite
here on the movie.
And I have it configured so
that when I click on the sprite,
it sends a message to the
application that says,
wouldn't you please put
me into full screen mode?
So let's do that.
Click.
And the application,
being interactive smart,
knows how to handle that message
and put it into full screen mode.
The final way we can be told to go
full screen is by opening a Flash file.
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
so that's all I'm going to talk about for
the moment in terms of interactive savvy.
I've left a few things undone at
the level of interactive smart,
which I'll come back to later,
and I haven't yet talked about
the interactive genius level.
So what, if we have an application,
can we do within the application to
add interactive behaviors to our movie?
Well,
QuickTime has a whole bunch of APIs that
we can call to do various things.
In this case,
the interactive behavior is provided
by the playback application.
Now let's take a demo of that.
Here I have a QuickTime VR movie
and I'm going to drop it on this
Custom Application and you'll see
that as soon as the movie opens up it
starts automatically panning around.
In addition,
I've got this... the program is smart
enough to know that when I click here,
[Transcript missing]
So let's sort of deconstruct that and see
how to do that using the QuickTime API.
First thing we need to do is
install some sort of timer.
Now what timer you use will depend
upon your development environment.
Cocoa and Windows have timers.
In a WaitNextEvent application we
could just be in our main event
loop looking for tick count.
Here I'm installing a CarbonEventLoop
timer to fire after a specified delay.
I'm passing into the timer an
indication of what callback function
to call when that timer triggers.
And I'm also passing it
in a piece of data here,
my instance.
An instance here is an identifier for
the QuickTime VR movie that I've opened.
When the timer fires,
what I want to do is get
the current pan angle,
increment it by some amount,
here by one degree,
and then set that pan angle.
So I'm getting the pan angle
and constantly incrementing
it whenever the timer fires.
You'll notice that I've
got a global variable here,
g if okay to auto spin.
So I'm going to set the new
pan angle only if that is true.
Why do I need that?
Well, if I get a click in the movie,
the movie controller will send
my MC Action proc an action
of type MC Action Mouse Down.
What do I want to do on a mouse down?
I want to say stop spinning,
and then I want to set another
timer to kick off in 10 seconds.
and you can see down below is
my second timer which just sets
that global variable to true and
effectively starts the spinning again.
So here with maybe twenty lines of code
added to my application I've got some
fairly interesting interactive behaviors.
Let's take another example
of some interactive behaviors
I can get by using the APIs.
I'm going to open this
QuickTime VR movie in QuickTime Player.
When I run my mouse over
a hotspot and click it,
I'll go to a new node.
and you can see that the default
behavior of QuickTime VR is
simply to jump to the new node.
I find that kind of jarring,
so what I did was write a
special application that
When I go from one node to the next,
it's going to use the QuickTime effects
architecture to do a nice smooth
crossfade between the current node
picture and the target node picture.
So let's do that.
Here I am in my special app.
I'll click the hotspot,
and I get a nice crossfade when
I go from one node to the next.
If I come back,
again I get that crossfade.
Now notice I'm not using a
canned linear movie here.
If I, for instance,
zoom in and change my pan
angle and go to the new node,
the crossfade happens from the
current picture to the new node.
Back to slides please.
Okay, how did I do that?
Again,
I took advantage of several callback
functions that QuickTime VR provides me.
In particular,
I use what are called node leaving
procedures and node entering procedures.
A node leaving procedure is called
when the user clicks a hotspot
to go from one node to the other.
So when I get a node
leaving procedure called,
what do I want to do?
Well, I'm going to call these
four lines of code,
which create an
off-screen graphics world.
They set the movie to draw
into that graphics world,
and then I call moviesTask to
actually draw the movie into
that off-screen graphics world.
Nothing on the screen has changed.
I've merely taken the current
picture and drawn it into a block
of memory that the user can't see.
When I enter the new node,
I want to do a similar thing.
I want to create a new
graphics world off-screen,
a new G world.
I want to set the movie now to draw into
that second off-screen graphics world.
I want to call movies
task to get it to draw.
And now what I've got is two
off-screen graphics world,
one with a picture of
the node I'm leaving,
the node I'm going into,
and I'll run this function,
my run transition effect,
to use the QuickTime effects APIs to
draw a nice crossfade between those two.
too.
When I'm done drawing that,
I will reset the controller port and the
movie port to the on-screen window and
then tell the movie that I've changed it.
Here's an overview
diagram of what I've done.
Step one, the movie's drawing into
the on-screen window.
Step two,
I draw it into an off-screen G world.
Step three, I draw the entered node
into an off-screen G world,
run the transition effect.
and then finally reset
everything back to the window.
So it may look complicated,
but in fact it's fairly simple code,
and I get a very nice effect from that.
Now it occurred to me once I had done
that demo that I could apply this
same logic to a standard linear movie.
And let's go back to demo
machine and see that.
Now first I'm going to open this
linear movie in just a run of the
off the shelf QuickTime application.
And I'm going to click down
here in the controller bar.
And again,
the default behavior is just to
jump to that new time in the movie.
Again, that's OK,
but we can do better than that.
So let's open that same movie
in this special application.
and then click somewhere at the
controller bar and now we get a
nice crossfade to that new time.
Very nice effect.
And I've got this little app
set up so that I can perhaps,
instead of a crossfade,
do a random radial transition.
This is good stuff.
I could do this all day.
OK, back to the slides, please.
So here's how I did the
time jump transition.
Again, I'm exploiting my movie controller
action filter procedure.
I'm now looking for an action
of type MCAction go to time.
The movie controller sends
me this when it wants me to,
lo and behold, go to a new time.
And in that case,
I'll call this application-specific
function doTimeJump,
which essentially does the
same sort of thing I did before
by getting the two images and
running a decompression sequence
to make that effect between them.
The only difference is
that with the VR case,
I was using node entering and
leaving procedures to trigger it.
Now I'm using a movie
controller action to trigger it.
Now the QuickTime,
I could go on and on for the entire
hour here with these kinds of examples.
Why?
Because the QuickTime APIs are just
full of these callback procedures
that I can use to get my grubby
little mitts into its workings.
I could, for instance,
use intercept procedures to
add directional sounds so
that when I'm panning around,
I can adjust the volume and balance of
a sound that's playing to make it look
like the sound is somewhere in that node.
I could use what are called time-based
callback functions to do things
when the movie reaches its end or
is at the beginning or is indeed
at any time in the middle there.
If I have a text track,
I could define a text loading
procedure that is called whenever
a new text sample gets loaded.
A useful thing to do there would be to
look at the actual text which is being
loaded and do something to that text.
And on and on and on.
Really the sky's the limit when
you have the APIs at your disposal.
The limitations here, however,
are that when I use
QuickTime functions like this to
do special interactive things,
for the user to get that experience,
they need my special application.
So they need this special
playback application.
Now in some cases,
this might not be a problem at all.
If I'm putting out
kiosks or a CD-ROM title,
I can put the playback application
right there where the user can get it.
However, it's kind of tricky if I'm
in some other situation.
For instance,
if I want this stuff to work on the web,
in a web browser, I can't ship a special
playback application.
I'm not about to write a web
browser that does my special stuff.
Well, even here we can get this
capability to some degree.
The first thing we could do is take
the intelligence out of the playback
application and put it into the movie.
We saw a lot of examples of
this in the previous session.
This is what I call scripting the media.
Make the media intelligent,
not the playback application.
The second thing I could
do would be to say,
"I really want to do it my way,
and lo and behold,
the current scripting behaviors
don't let me do that kind of
stuff." I could write a custom media
handler that had that logic in it,
and then using the new third-party
component download program,
get that custom media handler
distributed to my viewing public.
All right,
so that's what we can do with the APIs.
Now let's see how we can
make the media intelligent.
So what is the scripted interactivity?
This is where the movie itself
contains the logic for these
dynamic interactive behaviors.
The advantage of that is that that movie
can exhibit those behaviors anywhere
this QuickTime movie is played back,
in the web browser, in QuickTime Player,
or indeed in any
QuickTime-savvy application.
QuickTime now supports two
basic types of scripting.
Since we support
Flash inside of QuickTime,
we can take advantage of
Flash's ActionScript capability.
Or, as we saw previously,
QuickTime provides its own type
of scripting called Wired Actions.
Let's take a look at each of those.
Back to the demo machine.
Let's look at a very simple example
of some flash interactivity.
Here we have a simple movie where
I can move my cursor over these
objects and drag them around and
make kind of a neat little eggplant.
Very simple interactivity,
just being to drag objects around.
Slightly more complex interactivity,
[Transcript missing]
Okay, how did I do that?
Let's go back to slides.
This is the entire scripting
that's attached to one of those
objects in the Eggplant movie.
It says that when the mouse goes down,
start dragging,
and then the name of an object,
and when the mouse comes up,
stop dragging.
Start drag and stop drag are two
functions that are built into Flash.
Essentially, they say,
you've given me an object,
I'm going to make it follow the
cursor until you call stop drag,
which happens when the mouse is released.
Very simple scripting to get that
cool drag ability to Flash objects.
The lines is slightly more complicated,
and I won't tear this apart entirely,
but as you can see,
what's going on is they're reading
the current position of the mouse,
this underscore root dot
underscore X mouse and Y mouse.
They're doing a little bit
of math or trigonometry here,
figuring out a rotation for the lines,
and then setting the
rotation of that object.
Okay, so much for Flash.
Again, Flash scripting is the kind
of thing we could spend hours
and hours talking about.
It's sort of this limitless capability
of adding cool interactive behaviors
to objects in a Flash movie.
More generally,
we can add what are called wired
actions to QuickTime movies.
We do this by creating what are
called wired atoms and attaching
those wired atoms to various
kinds of QuickTime tracks.
The wired atom indicates two things:
what events are going to trigger it
and what to do when it gets triggered.
And a wired track is simply
a track that contains one or
more of these wired atoms.
Action wiring in QuickTime is just about
as full-bodied as ActionScript in Flash.
We have all sorts of programming
constructs that we can use
to create wired actions.
We can define constants,
have variables with changing values,
we can set things to happen in a loop,
we can branch according to, say,
the value of variable,
we have operands that allow
us to query the environment
and base our actions upon,
say,
what kind of machine we're running on.
Thank you.
This is what a wired atom looks like.
It's a hierarchical
structure of these atoms.
Every atom has three pieces of
information associated with it.
It has a type, it has an ID,
and it has some data.
Now in this case, the top level atom is
of type KQT event type,
and its ID is some value that indicates
what event is going to trigger this atom.
Here we have identifiers
for the standard events,
mouse over, mouse down,
various key downs,
things can happen on idle events,
fairly rich vocabulary there.
Now what is the data associated
with that top level atom?
It is another atom,
so I'm building up hierarchical
collections of atoms.
That other atom is of type K action.
It's going to specify what action
to do when that event occurs.
The action here has a type which
indicates which action to perform,
and it may also need some parameter atoms
that give you some optional parameters.
How do I build those?
QuickTime provides a number of functions
that we can use to build atom containers,
that is to say things that hold atoms,
and then within that container, atoms.
Now here,
this slide and the next slide is all the
code minus any error checking that we
would like to have to build a wired atom.
Let's just briefly run through this.
First thing I do is call
QtNewAtomContainer to build a container.
Then I'm going to start inserting
children into that container.
The first child I insert is
of type KQTEventMouseClick.
So this event, sorry,
this wired atom is going to be
triggered by a mouse click on
whatever object it's attached to.
Into that atom, I add an action atom.
Then continuing, the action here is going
to be K action go to URL.
So when I have this finished, this atom,
and I attach it to something
in a QuickTime movie,
when that object gets clicked,
it's going to open my web browser and
go to whatever URL I've specified.
What URL was it?
It was www.apple.com.
So, those two pages of code are
letting me build a wired atom.
Now my job is to put that wired
atom somewhere in a QuickTime movie
so that it actually does some good.
The first thing we can
attach it to is a sprite.
A sprite is a
[Transcript missing]
Okay, first let's look at a little
bit of mouse following.
Here's a sprite movie that just follows
the location of the mouse or cursor
and changes its image accordingly.
Nothing exciting there.
We saw in Flash that
I could drag things around.
I can also do that with wired sprites.
Here as I move that over my cursor
changes and I can drag that sprite
around inside the sprite movie.
I can set sprites moving around,
and this sprite has some wiring
attached to it that's reading
its position and determining
where it is within the movie box,
and when it reaches the edge,
it's changing the direction of travel
in one or both of the directions.
I can put several of those in a movie and
I can make them interact with each other.
So here you saw that when they
bang against each other they bounce
away at the appropriate angle.
And finally let's go back to that
is the creator of the new,
highly-appreciated,
and highly-appreciated, web browser.
He is the
So there we see in a very
simple way how to wire sprites.
Back to slides, please.
We can also wire text tracks.
This is kind of a fun thing.
How do I wire a text track?
Where do I put the wired atom
when I have a text track?
A text media sample consists really
just of a bunch of text followed by
one or more text atom extensions.
So I have the text in the
sample and I can stick some
additional data after that text.
One of these types of additional data
is called a wired text atom extension.
And within that wired
text atom extension,
I can have what are called hypertext
item atoms that pick out various ranges
of text and associate the dynamic
behaviors with a text in that range.
And the contents of the hypertext
item atom is simply the wired atom
or what I call the event atom.
And here's a little bit better look.
So I The text sample
consists of a length,
some text, a text atom extension.
The text atom extension
can look like this.
And you can see that
down at the bottom there,
I've added in my kqt event type atom.
is a great example of how to
create a video presentation
that is as simple as possible.
Here's a text movie that I'm opening.
It says, please take me to Apple or CNN.
This has in that text sample the
kind of structure that we saw there.
I have two ranges here of hypertext.
When I run my mouse over,
you can see it changes
from blue to purple,
indicating that if I click there,
something may happen.
Again, if I click the Apple,
it's going to launch my browser
and take me to Apple.com.
So exactly the same text wired atom
that I built to put into the sprite,
I can put into this text track
and have it do the same thing.
Okay, so we've got wired sprites,
we've got wired text.
There's two other kinds of
tracks that we can wire.
One of them is Flash.
I can't go into as much detail
on Flash because the format of a
Flash file is horribly complicated.
The fundamental idea is that
a Flash button or a frame can
contain a list of actions,
an action list.
This list of actions,
or each action in that list,
has a tag which identifies
which action to execute.
Macromedia was kind enough to
reserve a tag for us that we
can use to put QuickTime wired
actions into the Flash movie.
And what is the data that
goes along with that action?
It's simply the action of the atom
container that we built earlier.
So let's take a look at that.
Here again is our simple
little flash button.
What I've done is do a little bit of
programming to take that Atom container
that we built earlier and stick it into
the action list associated with this
button so that when I click the button,
what's going to happen?
It's going to open my web
browser and take me to Apple.com.
So this exact same Atom,
event Atom that I built,
I was able to attach to sprites, text,
and flash.
And let's go back to slides.
Now we'll want to attach
that to some QuickTime VR.
Now,
if we can take these wired actions and
associate them with either specific
hotspots within a QuickTime VR movie
or with the node as a whole.
So we could have it set up so
that when a hotspot is clicked,
the wired atom gets triggered and
does whatever it's supposed to do.
Now, the
Bottom two bullet points show you
exactly where to put that Atom
container inside a QuickTime VR movie.
Again, the structure of a VR movie
is fairly complicated,
so I won't go into that in detail,
but I will give you a
demo of how that can work.
So here I'm opening this movie with
QuickTime Player or I could open it in
any old QuickTime savvy application.
And you'll notice what did
it do when it opened up?
It started auto-spinning.
So the same behavior that I thought
a few minutes ago I needed
a custom application to get,
now I see that I can
get with a smart movie.
That is to say, by adding some wiring to
the QuickTime VR movie.
So let's go back to slides and see
how I built that particular atom.
Very much the same thing I did earlier.
I start off by creating
an atom container.
Into that atom container,
I add an event atom with
the ID kqtevent idle.
So now I want the action to occur
not when the hotspot gets clicked,
but just every so often.
Okay, whenever this track gets idled.
And I can specify the frequency with
which I get idle events in my movie.
Then to that event atom,
I add an action atom.
The action this time is going to
be k action qtvr set pan angle.
In this case,
I need a parameter atom to say
what pan angle should I set it to.
And here I'm sending it to my pan angle.
What is my pan angle?
Back here, it's one.
So I'm saying, okay,
let's set the current pan
angle to be one degree that
Now the way I get this to auto spin is
by adding what's called a flags atom.
And again, to go back,
you'll see the flags
I'm adding are K action,
flag action is delta.
That tells the movie controller,
when I said to set the pan angle to one,
I didn't mean go to one in the panorama.
I meant increment the
current pan angle by one.
So again,
here with about 20 lines of code,
I've built up a wired atom.
I've attached it to my QuickTime VR movie
to get this dynamic auto spin behavior.
Now one very nice feature of Wired
Atoms or Wired Actions is that
I can target various things in
the movie to apply the action to.
So every wired action has a
default target that depends
on the kind of action it is.
Set pan angle,
obviously the default target
there is a QuickTime VR movie.
It's possible though that I could target
some other object and I do that by adding
a target atom to my wired atom that
specifies which other object to target.
I can in fact even target
objects in another movie.
Let's take a look at this.
Now at the simplest level...
Why doesn't that want to open?
"I'm going to open a sheet then
and open it in a real application."
I don't know why
QuickTime Player doesn't want to open it,
it just doesn't like that movie.
But it is a valid QuickTime movie file.
Here I have two sprites.
When I click on one sprite,
the other sprite will rotate 90 degrees.
You can see by clicking
on the right-hand sprite,
the left-hand sprite is rotating.
Similarly, I can click this guy.
So each sprite is changing the
rotation of the other sprite.
Let's take another example.
Here's an example of
intermovie communication.
So on this side,
I've got my ripple sprite.
It's just a sprite with a
ripple effect applied to it.
Over here, I've got another sprite,
and I've got it set up so
that when I click on it,
the ripple sprite will
disappear or come back.
So here, messages are being sent from the
one movie to the other movie saying,
yo, Sprite, change your visibility state.
And let's take one final example
of intermovie communication.
This is kind of a nice one.
Here I've opened three movies.
Two of them are QuickTime VR panoramas
showing the Donner Lake area in
the winter and in the summer.
And here I have a third movie
which is a sprite movie.
It's got some controls in
it and when I roll over it,
it's sending messages to each
of those panoramas saying,
"Wouldn't you kindly
spin around?" And again,
they do the right things here.
I can zoom them both, zoom them both out.
And if you want to get nauseated,
you can just run your controller,
your mouse back and forth over this
and get a real nice earthquake effect.
Okay.
Back to slides, please.
What do I need to do to support
intermovie communication?
If you've got a QuickTime-savvy
application and you've never heard
of intermovie communication before,
and you were to open those two
movies or those three movies,
what you'd find is that
they don't communicate.
Why?
Well,
the movie controller that's handling any
of those movies needs some help from your
application to find the target movie.
A movie controller really just knows
about the movie that it's attached to.
It doesn't know that you have other
windows open that may contain movies.
So what it does is say, okay,
I've got this wired action here.
I want to tell the movie
summer.mov to change its pan angle,
but I'm not summer.mov.
I'm just some sprite movie.
What does it do?
It sends itself a movie
controller action.
of type MC_action getExternalMovie.
Because it knows that it's
not just out there by itself.
It's got an application underneath.
So it's essentially saying, look,
application, I need some help.
I need you to tell me
where this movie is.
So it's going to either ask for you
to give it a movie specified by a
certain name or by a certain ID.
Your job, when you get this
MC Action Get External Movie,
is to go through your list of
open movies looking for the
movie that it wants you to find.
How do you get a movie's name or ID?
This is stored in some movie user data.
So your job is to look at each movie,
look at its user data,
see if it has the appropriate
kind of user data that gives
the movie a name or an ID.
If you find it,
then you tell the movie controller,
"I found it.
Here's the movie you want
to send that message to."
QuickTime 5 introduced a couple
other movie controller actions that
you should consider supporting,
namely Get Movie Name and Get Movie ID.
And these are where a
movie controller says,
what's my name?
And it needs help from you again
to look at the movie user data
attached to the movie to figure
out what the movie's name or ID is.
So again, if you want to be really good,
interactive, smart with your application,
support these three
movie controller actions,
and you will have thereby
enabled intermovie communication.
Now let's talk about
application messages.
We saw a couple examples of that earlier,
namely where the QuickTime movie
or the Sprite movie were sending
messages to the application saying,
I'd really like to go full screen.
So before we had movies
talking amongst themselves,
now we have movies talking
to the application,
telling it to do things.
So application messages provide
a way for interactive media to
communicate with the application.
Again, there are two types of
application messages,
what I call QuickTime application
messages and Flash application messages.
QuickTime application messages
were introduced fairly
recently in QuickTime 5.
And the way you generate one of these,
or one way to generate one,
is by using a wired action
of type KactionSendAtMessage.
So for instance,
when I click on a button,
that could execute the action,
send this application
message to the application.
And the parameter there would specify
which message you want to send.
When the movie controller
gets that request,
it says, "Okay, I'll send this to the
application." How does it do it?
It sends the MCActionFilter
proc an action of type
MCActionAppMessageReceived,
saying, "Look, I just got this message.
Would you like to do
anything in response to that
Now QuickTime defines five messages
of which three are useful to us,
but you can in fact define
your own custom messages.
So this would be a way for you to
create some interactive content
that communicated with your
application to do special things.
These are the three messages that
I think we all should be handling,
namely enter full screen requested,
exit full screen requested,
and close window requested.
So you could get a message that
says I want to go full screen,
or I'd really like to exit full screen,
or wouldn't you really like to
close the window that contains me?
Now you'll notice that I have
a comment here that says,
be careful here.
And I say that because at one
point I wasn't careful here
and it led to bad things.
How wasn't I careful?
Well, I thought, okay,
I'm going to get this window
close requested message.
I know how to close a window, right?
I handle the close item in the file menu.
I'll just call the same function
I call there right here,
right?
Doesn't that make sense?
Well, to me it made sense.
The trouble was the function that
closes a window did a couple of things.
First, it looked to see whether the
data in the window had changed.
If so, it would put up a nice
dialogue to the user saying,
do you want to change or save
these changes or discard them?
When that was done, it would then get rid
of the movie controller,
the movie,
and finally destroy the window.
Well, I have some news for you.
Destroying a movie controller
inside a movie controller action
filter procedure is not a good idea.
You will crash fairly immediately
if you try to do that.
So, be careful there.
So let's look at a
QuickTime application message demo.
Back to Demos.
Here is a simple one.
Here again is a text movie.
Again,
I've wired up several stretches of text.
In particular,
the Apple here is wired to send the
close window message to the application.
And so when I click there,
the window goes away.
And I didn't crash because I was
careful in my MC Action Filter proc.
Let's open a couple of movies here.
Now I'm going to, this movie on the right
here is a Flash movie again,
and I have got it wired to
send a message to the application
that did this little earthquake thing.
Let's do that again.
You'll notice that the windows
themselves are moving around,
right?
That's something that the
application has to do.
That can't happen from within QuickTime.
So this was a very nice use of sending
a custom application message from the
Flash movie to the application saying,
let's do all this window
jiggling and play a sound.
Actually, if we play this thing full
screen and then kick it off,
that's kind of cool.
[Transcript missing]
So actually these application
messages are very powerful.
We have some predefined
application messages,
but you can define your own custom ones
to modify your application's behavior.
So, Flash application messages are
emitted when you have an action
script that has the FS command in it.
When the Flash Media Handler
gets an FS command to execute,
it sends to our
MovieControllerActionFilter proc
an action of type MCActionDoScript.
Associated with this action are
two text strings that I can look
at to see how to interpret the
action or indeed what it is.
So once again in our MCActionFilter proc,
I see that I am receiving an
action of type MCActionDoScript,
and I will call my application
function mydofs command.
What does that look like?
It's fairly simple.
I just look at the command and the
arguments that are passed to me,
and if I get full screen,
I'll call myEnterFullScreen.
If I get full screen set to false,
I'll exit full screen.
Very straightforward.
Uh... actually we already demoed
the Flash application message,
right?
When I clicked the Flash button,
it sent a message to
my application saying,
"Let's shake all those windows around."
Okay,
now we're back with interactive genius.
Recall that I needed to do two
things to be an interactive genius:
support skin movies,
and the second one was support
a flash contextual pop-up menu.
We've seen many examples
of skin movies today,
and fundamentally,
a skin movie is simply a movie
with a custom window shape.
Now, if you want to be able
to open skinned movies,
you need some special
code in your application.
This is not something
that QuickTime can handle.
It really knows nothing about the kind
of window that the movie is displayed in.
It needs help from your
application to do that.
How do we do that?
Well, I'll give you sort of the
beginnings of what you need to do,
because, of course,
how you draw and shape a window
depends on what development
environment you're using.
In any case, what we need to do is first
get information about what
shape this window should be.
I can do that by seeing if there's a
skin track associated with the movie.
So I'll call getMovieInTrackType and
look for a skin track or actually a skin
with the movie track characteristic.
If I find a track that
has skin data in it,
I want to get the track media
and also the track media handler.
QuickTime 5 introduced a new function
called Media Get Public Info.
And so to get the content
region of the window,
I will call it with the
four-character code SKCR.
To get the drag region,
I'll call it with SKDR.
So at this point,
I have the shapes that my window
is supposed to be in by making
these very simple QuickTime calls.
How I then use that information,
as I say, is platform-dependent.
Windows has a function
called SetWindowRegion that
is very simple to call.
I give it a region that
has that shape in it,
and it will draw the
window in that shape.
Carbon has similar capabilities,
and so does Cocoa.
Now how do I support the
Flash contextual pop-up menu?
The easiest way to do it,
again inside my MC Action filter prop,
is to look for an action of
type MC Action Mouse Down.
When I do that,
and if the Control key is down,
I'll call my special application
function that pops up the menu,
tracks it,
and does the appropriate things.
So let's summarize a bit.
If you have an application that
supports QuickTime movies and
you'd like to be able to handle
all these interactive behaviors,
you need to do these things.
Use a movie controller,
that's a given really.
Support intermovie communication,
that's fairly straightforward,
it just means iterating through
your windows to look for movies
that have a specified name or ID.
Support the key up event,
no matter how useless
you may think it is.
Flash doesn't think it's useless,
so please get it and hand
it to the movie controller.
Handle application messages,
we've seen how to do that either
with Flash application messages or
with QuickTime application messages.
Support skinned movies,
that's a little more complicated
but it's fairly straightforward.
And finally,
support full screen playback.
If you do all of these things,
your application will be up
there at the genius level.
People will not be amazed
at how little you can do,
but amazed by how much you can do.
Okay, let's reflect for a moment
at what we've learned today.
One thing we've seen is that we can
use QuickTime's APIs to embed various
interactive behaviors in our application.
That is to say,
to have our application support
various interactive behaviors such as
auto-spinning the VR movie or doing the
earthquake when I press the flash button.
The downside of that, again,
is that for people to get these
special interactive behaviors,
they need my special application.
So one thing that you can consider
doing is to export these interactive
behaviors as wired actions.
That is to say, take the intelligence out
of your application and put
it into the movie itself.
That way these wonderful behaviors
can be available everywhere
that movie is played back.
Now I've seen several applications
that are really quite good at putting
together multimedia presentations,
but they require a special
playback application to
play back that presentation.
And in virtually all the cases I've seen,
the kinds of interactivity
that they're using could easily
be moved from the playback
application into the movie itself.
So that I think is a very good thing
to try to do if you have one of these
applications that allows people to
author dynamic interactive media.
Thank you.
Second possibility here, as we've seen,
we can have the movies send
messages to your application.
Flash can do it and wired
QuickTime tracks can do it.
Well, this raises a very
interesting possibility.
You could have a QuickTime movie
be the primary user interface
for your application.
One of the least fun things
about programming on various
platforms is getting the UI looking
just right on each platform.
One very nice way around that problem
is to create a QuickTime movie that has
got buttons or pop-up menus or whatever,
text input fields,
all the things that your application
needs to get information from the user,
have that movie be the front
end for your application.
The advantage there is that the UI is
going to be the same on whatever
platform this movie is played back on.
And that's pretty much
what I have to say today.
Well, these we've all seen.
No point in looking at that.
There are three upcoming sessions that
I think will be interesting to you.
There's a feedback
forum coming on Friday.
There's a very good session,
QuickTime for the web.
If you're interested in QuickTime and
how it works within browsers,
that would be an excellent
session to go to.
And also we have a technical
overview of MPEG-4.
For more information about all this,
you can go to the website where we
have a large set of documentation.
Two other places that I especially
like are www.blueabuse.com.
This is put together by
the Totally Hip People.
It's a very nice resource
for interactive QuickTime.
Another location I want to
mention is Mac Tech Magazine.
In the past couple of years,
they've been publishing a lot
of articles about QuickTime,
which I think will be very useful.
And sample code,
basically everything I've shown
you today is using off-the-shelf
sample code applications or minor
modifications of that sample code.
So there's nothing I've done here
now that you can't do in the privacy
of your own home using sample code
that is available now on the web.
The one caveat, as I said earlier,
is that the skin sample code
is slightly out of date,
and within the next week or so
it should be updated to give you
just the behaviors you saw there.
And finally,
let me remind you that this week
you have a very special opportunity
to sit down with members of
the QuickTime engineering team,
bringing in your code problems
and having us hopefully solve them
or at least give you some insight
as to how you might approach it.
And that's what I've got to say.
Thank you very much.